# Page modifiers

Due to the way the Proxy Application operates, it becomes fairly easy to modify the pages as they are being served. Because the datastream must pass through the proxy to have the translation embedded, the Proxy Application can insert JavaScript modifiers, modify style sheets, and even embed entire pages that do not exist on the original.

+ CSS Editor: the Proxy Application can be used to insert locale-specific CSS rules into the site being served. The rules are inserted as the last element of the `head` on every page served through the proxy. The most common use of this feature is to alter the writing direction for non-Latin scripts, such as Arabic.
+ JavaScript Editor: the JavaScript edited here is inserted into the `head` element of every page being served through the Proxy Application. As the last element of the `head`, it has access to any global variables added by scripts before it.
+ Content Override: the Proxy Application can create a “virtual” page in the site or override an existing one with custom code. For any requests to an overridden page, the corresponding remote server request is not sent, and the override contents are used as the basis of the translation. The source is not required to be HTML, custom content-types can be entered, along with customized cache headers, and status codes (HTTP status codes are restricted to those permitted by the [Java Servlet class](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.5-doc/servletapi/javax/servlet/http/HttpServletResponse.html)!) - note that the 300-family of status codes requires the `Location` header to be defined as well.

Both the CSS and JavaScript injectors can use already-existing files for injection instead of copied content. The injected files must be handled by the project in some way (either by being in the project domain, or in the domain of a linked project), or be created by a content override. The order of definition for these entries matters, as they will be inserted into the document in the order they are displayed on the UI, which may cause dependency or concurrency issues!
